---
layout: post
title: "bye-cloud: Take your iCloud photos to Immich"
date: "2026-02-19 06:00:00 -0500"
categories: bash
emoji: 👋
---

I set up Immich and exported all my data from iCloud, but I needed a way to reognize Apple's data dump.

Apple will give you your iCloud data if you request it, but they make it as inconvenient as possible. It
takes days to process your request, and the files are organized in a way that works for them, not you. There
is metadata in CSVs and JSON files, that includes information about the photos and what albums they belong to.

I wanted a simple folder structure to represent albums (including their generated "memories"), and very 
importantly I wanted to preserve data information which is not consistently present in the image files themselves,
so I needed a way to stitch the data back into the images, and reoganize the images into folders.

From there I was able to import it with `immich-go`, a really cool tool that just doesn't have specific support
for iCloud exports yet.

So I created `bye-cloud`, a program that was useful to me exactly once, and decied to publish it. A few months
later, I took a pass at spiffing up the code base with Claude Code -- adding testing and distributing on Homebrew.

Usage is pretty simple, so check out the code and docs here: [https://github.com/jakekara/bye-cloud](https://github.com/jakekara/bye-cloud).

I have pretty complicated and conflicting feelings about using AI for coding, which I will explore more but not here.
If one person besides me uses it to leave the Apple ecosystem, I think it's worth it. It was a lot of effort to write
it from scratch, and there was no way I would have written tests or packaged it for Homebrew without a faster way
to write the code.